[gun cocks]
[heavy breathing]
[screams]
[grunts]
[panting]
[screams]
[horse neighing]
Don't play dumb.
It won't end well for you.
Just tell us how to access
the secret
under Whitestone,
and this will all end.
Please.
I told you.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
I do love it when they hold out.
[Percy screaming]
[Ripley] Sadly,
that may leave a mark.
Mm.
- [Percy coughing]
- I'll need his sister.
[Percy whimpering]
[muffled shout]
[gasps]
[Ripley] Let's try again.
- Doctor...
- Percy, wait!
[gunshot]
♪ ♪
Percy, what are you doing?!
She's unarmed!
[Percy] So was my family.
Percy, she may have
something we can use.
They kept her alive
for a reason.
Um. Mind telling us
who the hell this is?
Dr. Anna Ripley.
Another Briarwood pawn
I'm about to remove
from the board.
[chuckles] And here I thought
you were the intelligent one.
We're both engineers, Percival.
We know the value of knowledge.
You must be curious
as to the information I possess.
[gun cocks]
Not that curious.
- Brother, wait.
- Why should I?!
I've been with the Briarwoods
for years,
and I know next to nothing
about their motives.
[sighs]
Fine.
Interrogation.
Then she dies.
Speaking of burning questions,
uh, quick little sidebar here?
[exhales]
Percy, hey, love ya pal,
but we got to deal
with this smoke thing. I mean,
you are legit fucked up.
Not this again.
It's been getting worse.
Pike, eh...
can you divine anything?
If Percy will let me.
[grunts]
[exhales]
[gasps]
Percy?
Look at me, please.
- [shouts]
- [gasping]
I don't know what it is!
But something is
clouding your soul.
We need to get you to a temple.
Really? With rebels
at the gates
and the Briarwoods
in this castle?
Have you all gone mad?
But if something
is wrong with you...
Your concerns are
appreciated, truly.
But we must press forward.
As soon as this is over,
I will sort it out.
[Pike] Will you?
I swear on my family's name.
[gate unlatches]
[gate slams]
[grunts]
[Percy] All right, talk.
You work for the Briarwoods.
Why would they imprison you?
[chuckles] Would you believe
I had moral objections
to their plans?
- [grunts]
- [all gasp]
It was a simple transaction.
They needed an engineer,
I needed a patron
to fund my experiments.
When my job was complete,
I thought it was time to leave.
They disagreed.
And why am I not
simply shooting you,
heading to the throne room,
and doing the same to them?
Because, Percival,
they aren't there.
Their concerns lie
with the ziggurat.
Da what?
Oh! The-the zippertwat!
That-that thing
in the Skin Book of Evil!
[gasps] It all makes sense!
- It does?
- No, not really.
Their ritual, whatever it is,
it'll happen there.
And the ziggurat is not up.
It's down.
Ah, the dark power I sensed
through the Sun Tree's roots.
I think she's telling the truth.
I don't trust a word she says.
Then trust me.
If you let me live,
I can take you there.
[Percy] Fine.
[grunts]
We're only sparing your life
because you're useful to us.
For now.
[Ripley] I'll need my bag.
[Percy] Wait.
What's this?
You've been busy.
Shall we go, then?
[chuckles] Never thought
you and I would work together.
At the moment, you are the
luckiest person in Whitestone.
'Cause you're at
the bottom of my list.
Not a soul crosses that line!
[guards shout in unison]
The Dawnfather shall stand
as a flame in the darkness.
Whitestone is our home,
and today,
we take it back!
- To the castle!
- [clamoring]
[indistinct shouting]
So, uh...
[clears throat]
Cassandra, was it?
Seeing as how we're
two unattached adults...
No.
[groans]
Interesting company you keep.
I recall you having more digits
last time we saw each other.
Innovation is dangerous.
Especially when you mix
science and magic.
This ziggurat.
- You found it for them?
- [scoffs]
Not just found, restored.
Improved.
At the Briarwoods' request,
I was able
to augment the structure
with a particular mineral.
Residuum.
But to what end is
anyone's guess.
- [grunts]
- What are you...
[grunts]
[all gasp]
Mm, worked even better
than my design.
Perhaps I should take the lead?
[Percy] By all means.
Easier to keep an eye on you.
Mm?
Uh, buddy?
Whoa. I mean, you feel real.
I am, Grog.
I'm just... not entirely here.
Right.
So it worked?
I mean, you said sorry?
Well, I had things
I needed to figure out.
And once I did...
Let's just say
I know who I am now.
Well, duh.
You're my best friend.
Except now you glow in the dark!
[laughs] Ooh!
How are those wounds?
I've survived worse.
Hmm.
I warned you
those vines have thorns.
[Vax] [sighs] Yeah, yeah.
Such a well-constructed weapon.
Do the barrels rotate
by gear or wheel?
Come now, you must be dying
to talk shop
with an intellectual equal.
Your friends seem
pleasant enough, but...
your mind is on another level.
She has a point.
Your mind is unlike any
I've come across.
Thank you, Cassandra.
[Cassandra] [chuckles]
Not a compliment.
[grunts]
[chuckles softly]
[Ripley] This way.
We're getting closer.
[Percy] For your sake,
you best hope so.
[exclaims]
Stand back!
That stone person's armed!
Uh, that's a grave.
[Vex] Where are we?
[Cassandra] Our family tomb.
It holds generations
of de Rolos.
[rumbling]
[gasps]
[grunts] We've got visitors.
[Vex] Wait a second.
Did Lady Briarwood raise
all the dead?
[growling]
Uncle Nathaniel?
[chuckles weakly]
[Keyleth] Hi!
I'm Keyleth,
friends with your nephew.
Oh, God, you smell like shit.
[exclaiming]
[growling]
[grunts]
This is wrong.
Oh, I know. Isn't it great?
[grunting]
[exclaims joyfully]
[laughing]
[Keyleth] How long's he gonna
stay like that?
No telling, really.
Drop it, Ripley. Now.
You still think
you can do this without me?
[sighs] Percival, I'm not what
you should be worried about.
I have more than enough worry
to go around.
[exhales]
Fine.
But you'll regret this.
[grunts]
Mind giving this
a shove, big man?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Could you say that again?
Oh, gods. Oh, Grog.
You are so mighty
and I am so weak.
How ever can little old me
survive without you?
Well, since you asked so nicely.
[grunting]
[Scanlan] Whoa.
[Ripley] Some of my best work.
This far below Whitestone,
it took ages.
- I don't trust her.
- You don't trust anyone.
Well... except you.
Funny way of showing it
sometimes.
[sighs] Oh, gods.
Hey, uh, just to point this out
before we go get ourselves
killed, we do have evidence now.
We could drop this whole thing.
You know, go back
and fight our day in court.
Oh, and abandon
the revolution we caused?
No, whatever the Briarwoods
are planning down there,
we must end it.
Right, right, yeah, yeah.
[scoffs] Dumb suggestion,
Keyleth.
Yeah, I'm really disappointed
in you, Keyleth.
Wait, what? No,
Scanlan's the one who said...
[muttering]
[Keyleth] Okay, uh...
Percy?
Any idea what we're looking at?
It's a drug factory!
We just hit the jackpot.
Anybody have a pipe?
I'm fairly certain that would be
an unpleasant trip.
This is residuum.
The pipes must carry acid
for its chemical refinement
process.
[Vex] Looks like
they're making a lot of it.
[Vax] Why so much?
[gun cocks]
This was Anders' domain.
I only helped them
with the ziggurat.
Uh, what the heck is this for?
[rats squeaking]
[sizzling]
Cassandra!
No.
[panting]
Percy.
Tell your sister
to quit taking the piss
before I forget my manners.
[Percy] Cass,
what are you doing?!
[Sylas] Excellent work, dear.
[growls]
[grunts]
Bit of a slow learner.
[Vex] No!
Brother!
Why are you doing this?
You did this to yourself, Percy.
The day you left me
lying in the snow,
choking on my blood
like a hunted animal.
My brother abandoned me.
[grunts]
I have a new family now.
One that transcends death.
One that will never leave me.
I am a Briarwood.
[sobbing]
You!
I'm just as trapped as you are.
I must say,
I'm quite surprised to see you
out of your cage, Anna.
A delight that you've gone
and gotten yourself recaptured.
Poor Ripley.
Always the unlucky one.
Stop! If you value your lives,
you'll let my brother go!
I'm afraid life is
far more valuable
to you than it is to us.
Don't fret.
We'll take excellent care
of him.
Be a lamb, would you?
[gasps]
- [gasps]
- An acid trap?
Oh, real fucking original!
Vax! Brother!
Wake up! It's me!
Wake up!
Wait! C-Come, come on!
Don't you at least want
to see Grog die?
[Grog] Hmm?
[exhales]
Uh, guys?
There must be a way out of this.
Anyone have a plan?
- Vex?
- Why are you looking at me?
Percy, a little help?
Right, well...
um... try to stop the acid!
Uh... fuck, uh, ooh! Pike!
Can't you just, you know,
pass through walls?
I'm not a ghost, Scanlan.
If I break the connection,
there's a chance
I won't be able to come back.
Then let's get to smashing!
[grunting]
Welp, I'm out of ideas.
The feed pipe.
If we can cut it off,
it might buy us some time.
[Vex] And how do you
propose we do that?
Ah, yes!
- [all cheering]
- Nice!
- [Grog] Now we're talking!
- [Vex] Not bad, Keyleth.
Uh, fam?
Oh, shit.
Oh, not what I was going for.
Your castle has
lousy plumbing, Percy.
All right, new plan.
Stay out of the acid!
[grunts]
Scanlan's Hand!
Come on, pile on!
[grunting]
Percy, get over here!
Aw, great, Percy's broken.
Come here, you limp noodle.
[grunting]
It won't hold for long,
so unless you want
to go swimming, we need
to come up with something fast!
Percy, snap the fuck out of it!
We came here
risking our lives for you.
Be here for us.
What's the point?
She's gone again.
[Vex] Maybe.
But the people in this room,
we're not.
We will never abandon you.
You want your sister back.
And I want my brother.
But if we're to have
a chance of saving them,
you have to save us first.
Right. Scanlan, can you get us
- to the ceiling?
- What? How?
You fuckers are too heavy!
Wait, that's it.
Heavy.
- [grunting rhythmically]
- [playing heavy metal riff]
Ah, the mechanism
that controls the walls...
There!
Oh! Heck yes, Percy!
[grunting]
- Got it!
- [Grog] Pike!
The switches are interconnected.
There appears to be a third
to pull simultaneously.
Yes, exactly.
We need to triangulate
its location.
[grunts] There's no visible
controls on the outer walls.
The drain.
The stopper!
In the acid?
You have to be insane
to go in...
I'm going in!
[grunts]
[gurgling]
[gasps]
Grog, wait!
I'll heal you!
[grunts]
No!
Ready?
[grunting]
Now!
[gasps]
[all grunting]
Good to have you back, Percival.
Since I helped out, don't you
think I earned my freedom?
If you're lucky, you've earned
another hour of life.
- [Pike] There you go.
- [groaning]
You okay, Grog?
[grunts] I don't know.
Is...
is Captain Winky still there?
Uh, still hangin' low, buddies.
Ooh, then I'm good.
Let's go!
Oop, forgot my drawers.
Where does this lead?
The ziggurat.
Cassandra.
The ritual requires
a blood sacrifice.
Now we're spoiled for choice.
♪ ♪
Chirp.